some people were shocked that I so
directly and aggressively said look
arguments for veganism that are based on
superstition arguments for veganism that
are based on Buddhist tradition
basically have to go it's game over that
has nothing to do with what we're doing
now in the future in the vegan movement
this is nothing to do with political
veganism ecological veganism ethical
veganism or even health based veganism
you know the plant-based the head people
or you know reducing your chances of
heart attack reducing your cholesterol
we have to draw a very clear line
between past present and future and the
future of veganism in China the future
of veganism for Chinese people living in
Canada California and Australia the
future of veganism is not going to be
nostalgia for the superstition of the
feudal past
- addition you may know Fujio - tomliboo
churro dr. Tom and Julia chunky decision
Fanta Joshua Fong Jia to do the tree
Tracy and I crochet Jia Jiang Ming woman
who she out with the shanty Chan Khong
sure damu Dom see die go die random [ __ ]
ow
Taman coo coo coo non-church ensue in
way woman's hands I Dow mckernon ETA
yo J girl Shampoo function sweep jiggle
only 20 bian Zhong eager young Joshua
doing I'm a Lucien that's my my new best
friend in the background there you see
that all with the dough hook the dough
hook on that's what we call a stand
mixer in the baking industry anyway it's
my new robot friend taking up the back
way up in the in the in this video I got
some fan mail from a sport or on patreon
and he's an english-speaking guy who's
currently living in China he wrote to me
about the difficulty of being vegan in
China and the inspiration he took from
my channel in different ways so I'm
guessing he's
partly inspired by the stuff about vegan
activism and veganism as an ethical
cause and partly just the videos that
talked about coping with life in China
learning Chinese as a language and that
sort of thing anyway he wrote to me I
wrote back to him he's supporting me on
patreon for $1 a month you should too
I'll answer your emails and I'll make
videos respond to your questions
he wrote back again with a question
basically he seemed to be asking me
about how optimistic he should be about
making a positive impact through
community activism in Chinese with
Chinese as the language when he returns
to the the Western world he asks me how
optimistic I am in effect about my
ability to make a positive difference in
promoting veganism in the Chinese
language for a Chinese speaking audience
here in Canada we could say Canada or
the United States for that matter so
this is an interesting topic and I was
tempted to discuss it just two or three
videos ago the video about can Saviour
and responds to this satirical take on
vegan activism on the continent of Asia
um why was I tempted to do it there the
interesting thing is I mean you have a
bit of a coals to Newcastle phenomenon
if you're preaching veganism in Asian
cultures that already have a set of
expectations attached to vegetarianism
if not veganism right so to talk about
veganism in a Hindu context to talk
about veganism in a Buddhist context to
talk about veganism even just in a
context where culturally people are
already familiar with some of these core
ideas because of many centuries of
Buddhist or Hindu background it is a
very different thing from introducing it
as an original idea I don't know to
people in Northern California where it
doesn't have these these expectations
attached to it so it in a lot of ways
you know if you're a white Western
person presenting veganism to a Chinese
audience you have a more difficult task
then I think if you were arguing for
veganism let's say in a in a Muslim
setting it would be very very different
conceptually I mean this is a real
example when I was in Taiwan Taiwan is
the strongest vegan culture of any
country in the world
it really does it's amazing just how
much veganism there is there but when
you tell people you're vegan in that
part of the world they assume you
believe in ghosts it's very common in
Taiwan if you tell people that you're
vegan they believe you're the sort of
superstitious person who goes and
venerates
the ghosts of your your ancestors you
know your deceased grandparents and the
sort of thing you know that you're
someone who actually makes decisions in
your life that are based on um you know
in two words hocus pocus and in Taiwan
that is incredibly commonly seen
I lived surrounded by people making
burnt offerings to the ghosts I I could
say burnt offerings to the gods but I
think in most cases it was this sort of
animism stacking up huge piles of fake
money to venerate the dead you know
elaborate rituals most of which involve
lighting things on fire
sometimes they involved hurling things
into the ocean this kind of symbolic
sacrifice these are mainstream powerful
beliefs and cultural assumptions in
Taiwanese society and the Sheep the
conceptualization of veganism and the
reception of veganism now look how easy
is it to instead argue for veganism in
Iraq in 2018 I have zero experience
living or working in Iraq but I can say
that you're at least starting from a
blank sheet of paper and you're starting
from the assumption that veganism is a
new modern predominately Western idea
and it's then an idea you're probably
gonna debate or discuss largely in terms
of science in terms of ecology
you know ecology is ultimately rooted in
the sciences in terms of health and in
terms of ethics but a very modern and
scientistic form of of ethics you know
the appraisal of the
against of you know animal suffering or
animals being put through these terrible
situations on factory farms for you know
to produce food that's unnecessary an
unhealthy etcetera etcetera that's very
very different from stepping into a
conversation with somebody for whom the
core message of veganism is something
they're already familiar with or
something they think they're already
familiar with and you know where they
probably feel about it the same way an
American person would feel about
jehovah's witnesses the same way you
know you might feel about Street
Preachers
at the airport or you know going through
the door or standing on the standing on
the street corner with a Bible preaching
to you that the end of the world is
going to come in a Chinese context
mainland China the Chinese from places
overseas Chinese is the call from places
like Malaysia and Taiwan really veganism
in that sense you start off with it
sounding tired and overly familiar for
the wrong reasons it's something that
people in general are not going to be
eager to hear again and you presenting
the case for burdens expectations now
above and beyond that there's maybe an
expectation I mean so in my case it's
very peculiar i I was a scholar of
Buddhism for more than 10 years I
actually do have tremendous expertise in
in Buddhism I have peer-reviewed
publications to prove that I have a long
strange track record of travel and
lectures have delivered and so on to
prove that I can present arguments for
veganism in a Buddhist context or in a
uniquely Chinese cultural context that
you know addresses for us to make use of
that that situation and I choose not to
look I do not argue for veganism as a
scholar of Buddhism you can watch a lot
of videos on this channel discussing why
that is on the contrary you know the
only video on this channel where I'm
talking about veganism in Chinese in my
own voice you know it's not translated
by someone else where I'm making the
case for it I instead try to really
disambiguate
modern Western ecological and ethical
veganism veganism as I know it because
my preach it I try to completely
disambiguate that disentangle it from
the Chinese superstitious tradition so
I've a couple of videos now talking
about that we say look you cannot think
of this in terms of the old religious
ideas that separate spiritually clean
food from spiritually unclean food that
are based in ideas of spiritual
pollution covering these foods no it's
not about spiritual pollution
it's about actual pollution it's about
ecological pollution it's not about
whether or not you will be reincarnated
as a in a good situation or a bad
situation it's not about the ghost of
your dead ancestors I really have to
strenuously argue for the idea that
veganism is something important in
itself and of itself and again if so if
you're talking about a Chinese market a
Chinese audience the question you have
to ask is why would they want to hear it
from me why would I be the guy to
deliver that message why would I have
any credence or credibility why would my
voice matter and by the way I can answer
those questions really positively about
but a scholarship it's actually very
easy I've done this it's very easy for
me to walk into a room it's very easy
for me to walk into a Buddhist monastery
and get an audience on my wavelength and
say hey you know I'm a white person I
was born outside of Buddhism and this is
how I got involved this cell became a
scholar of it here's the message I have
to deliver to you I really am quite
capable of being a charismatic preacher
for Buddhism as a philosophy if not
Buddhism as a religion and you know
explaining to people why it is I have a
unique and well-informed message that
they should pay attention to when they
as Chinese people already have access to
a wealth of Buddhist preachers you know
it's not like I'm the only person who
they could be
listening to or paying attention to on
these matters so yeah it's a it's a very
very tough sell and the other thing you
have to remember is we're talking here
specifically about the overseas Chinese
they are not a random sampling of the
people you won't meet in mainland China
the people who choose to leave China and
come to Vancouver who choose to leave
China and come to Canada have very
specific motivations for doing so have
very specific opportunities for doing so
you will have a much more positive
experience dealing with say the average
man in Kunming in mainland China
basically any normal city in mainland
China you're not looking at this
peculiar self-selected minority who pack
up their lives and get on an airplane
either expecting to never go home again
or to go home only for brief visits so
growing up in Canada and growing up in
Toronto I didn't realize the extent to
which the Chinese people I was meeting
in Toronto were not in any way
representative of the normal China or of
the the broad spectrum of Chinese
culture that I was meeting a very
particular type of Chinese person who
migrated the Toronto and who also was
successful afternoon my girl because
some people migrate and fail and and
they go back of course this is a very
peculiar self-selected minority and they
will often have you know very shall we
say hardened attitudes towards the
culture they chose to depart from you
know they may have come to really
negative conclusions about Chinese
culture in terms of modern politics they
may have chosen to leave China because
they're really dissatisfied with the
government and politics as they exist
today they may have chosen to leave
China because they're very dissatisfied
with the traditionalism put it that way
traditional Chinese culture traditional
Chinese religion which is true of many
people who choose to leave a Western
country and migrate to another country
also it may be in part a rejection of
the values and norms that they've grown
up with you know in that country and
then on the flip side of that you also
have Chinese immigrants who are hyper
traditionalist who left China hoping to
recapture those roots or hoping to
preserve them who hope who go to Canada
and who actually very much want to
recreate an idea they have in their own
mind of what traditional Chinese culture
is supposed to be and who are really
hoping to inculcate those values in the
next generation
although that's a minority they're a
highly visible minority especially to go
to the suburbs of Toronto if you go to a
Chinese community center or Chinese
Buddhist temple you do meet that vocal
minority of Chinese who've left the
country but you've resolved to in a
sense be as traditional istic as
possible so in all of these situations I
have to say the questions you need to
ask yourself are the same fundamental
questions I tell my colleagues can again
to ask yourself when doing humanitarian
work what do you have to offer people
ask me for Vice all the time no not
every week but often enough people ask
me for advice about buying an airplane
ticket and going to do humanitarian work
somewhere in Asia normally it's Asia
they ask me about whether it's Thailand
Laos Cambodia or other parts of Asia and
one of the first issues I have to press
them is you need to sit down and ask
yourself what do you have to offer if
you're a dentist the answer may be very
simple you're going there to provide
dentistry to people who otherwise
wouldn't have access to dentistry I
remember meeting a guy he had quite an
interesting humanitarian career simply
as a plumber his area of expertise was
in plumbing and he went to disaster
zones where hurricanes had just
destroyed all the plumbing and
infrastructure any humanitarian work
providing plumbing to refugee camps that
kind of thing
I think also repairing plumbing for
normal cities this er thing that was his
form of humanitarian work so we had
something very specific to offer but why
does your voice matter how can you
actually help people what do you have to
offer and then how are those people
going to perceive you you know if you're
something like a dentist or a plumber if
there's something specific there you
have to offer they may perceive you in
those terms for better or worse right
whoo-hooo naturally is going to care
about their dentists opinion about
veganism animal rights ethics and
ecology they could be more dismissive of
you for that reason even though they
respect you as a dentist who is
necessarily going to care about the
Plummers opinion about veganism it's a
very strange province we're into here in
terms of public morality
public intellectual discourse in
politics why is it that some voices
emerge in a way that's respected and not
others but I can tell you one thing for
the Chinese market I maybe I'm wrong
but here's my bet you are never going to
make progress by being emotionally
anguished over the top the way Joey carb
strong sometimes is in the street the
way earthling ed is you are never gonna
make progress but walking up to a
stranger and telling them on the street
that they're wearing a you know a fur
coat or that they're hood is over you
are never gonna get there through
showing how emotionally overwhelmed you
are by the suffering of animals by
making pleas for compassion of course
it's interesting because both on the
Buddhist side and a different sense of
the Confucian side you can argue that
the whole edifice of Chinese
civilization and culture the whole
religious tradition really is about
compassion in many ways but in the same
way that if you grew up Christian
it doesn't make you more susceptible to
hearing those Christian tropes it makes
you more off but you know standoffish
and Leary Anika if someone walks up to
you in the street and it's telling you
stuff that's familiar from your whole
childhood experience growing up
Protestant in a small town in southern
United States you're probably more
reluctant to hear those moral arguments
when they're applied to veganism in the
same way you have what I call the coals
to Newcastle phenomenon where the
Chinese broadly speaking because they're
familiar with a lot of these tropes and
these ideals they're even more reluctant
to think of them as something novel and
new they should maybe consider or
reconsider as possibly having a very
positive role in their own lives and a
positive role in the future of society
so guys I'll give you a link below this
video and you can see my attempt to deal
with this in my earlier video some
people were shocked that I so directly
and aggressively said look arguments for
veganism that are based on superstition
arguments for veganism that are based on
Buddhist tradition basically have to go
it's game over that has nothing to do
with what
doing now and in the future in the vegan
movement this is nothing to do with
political veganism ecological veganism
ethical veganism or even health based
veganism you know the plant-based diet
people or you know reducing your chances
of heart attack reducing your
cholesterol we have to draw a very clear
line between past present and future and
the future of veganism in China the
future of veganism for Chinese people
living in Canada California and
Australia the future of veganism is not
going to be nostalgia for the
superstition of the fetal past evolution